Hello everyone and welcome to a series of
lessons on graph analytics with Neo4j.
In this first tutorial we are going to go
briefly through the process of downloading
and installing Neo4j, and
then we'll go ahead and run Neo4j and
provide a brief review of
the Neo4j graphical interface.
So, let's get started.
To download Neo4j,
you'll want to browse to neo4j.com, and
once you're at that URL,
you should see a webpage similar to this.
Neo4j typically will detect which
operating system you're running, but
if you want to download
other versions of Neo4j,
click this link in the upper
right-hand corner to download Neo4j.
We're going to use the community edition,
so we'll click this link right here.
But if you'd like to
explore other releases,
you can click the link down here.
When we click
the Download Community Edition link,
Neo4j should automatically
begin the download.
There are versions of Neo4j for
Windows, Mac, and Linux.
Neo4j is developed with the Java
programming language, so
you'll want to be sure you have the
minimum system requirements to run Neo4j.
We'll provide a link to those system
requirements in the resources of
this video.
This example is with
the Mac OS X operating system.
And we've downloaded the .dmg file and
we can click to open that.
And as is the case with the Mac
applications to install is very
straightforward.
We'll just click and drag this icon
into the Applications folder and
that should automatically install.
Once the application is installed,
we should see it listed in
the Applications folder.
So let's go ahead and run Neo4j.
To run Neo4j, you'll just double-click
on the application's icon.
Neo4j is browser-based, so
it launches a web server, and
it launches a URL specific to Neo4j.
So to activate that server
we'll click the Start button.
If it's your first time using Neo4j
then you probably won't have any graph
databases available to open,
so Neo4j makes it easy for
you by providing a default
graph database of movie data.
To run Neo4j, you click this link and
that should launch your default browser.
Installation on Windows should be
just as straightforward as OS X.
You'll click the same
Download Neo4j button and
when the download page opens,
you'll click Download Community Edition.
Neo4j should recognize you're running
Windows and should download an executable.
Once that downloads we can run it and
we'll step through the same steps
which are typical for
a Windows operating system.
Now I already have Neo4j
installed in my Windows system so
I will be updating my
existing installation.
And Neo4j downloads a Java jar file.
Once the application's installed
it will open the dialog box and
we can start up our web server.
And the same URL is available and
when we click that, our default
browser should be launched and we should
see the same interface we see In OS X.
You should be able to subsequently
run neo4j by accessing the executable
in the Windows Start menu.
So let's take a look at
the neo4j interface.
As I mentioned previously,
neo4j is a browser-based application.
So once the application launches it
should open your default browser and
in my case, I'm using the Chrome browser.
And you should see a URL like
this in the address bar.
Most browsers provide a full-screen
viewing mode, so I'm going to go ahead and
activate that, in this case,
what Chrome calls presentation mode.
The interface for
neo4j consists of three main areas.
There's the command line along the top
where you can issue commands and you can
paste content into the command line and
execute multiple lines at one time.
You can specify these commands
to be one of your favorites.
You can clear the command box.
And you can run, or execute,
the commands with the Play button.
On the left-hand side is an expandable and
collapsible panel that provides
supplementary information about the
database you're currently working with.
There's an option to list your favorites,
and
Neo4j provides an initial
default listing of favorites.
And there's supplementary information and
links to references and
examples and tutorials and so on.
You can also modify the configuration
of your Neo4j installation for
your particular user.
And there's additional information
about the application.
The third area is the main panel in
the middle where the results of all of
the commands that you
execute are displayed.
In fact, this panel itself has been
generated by issuing a command,
which is displayed in
the very top of the panel.
The command is ;play start.
In fact, if I type that command into my
command line I should be able to generate
a duplicate of that panel,
and sure enough, there it is.
The upper right-hand corner of these
panels I can pin the panel to my webpage,
and I can do this with as
many panels as I want and
the window will simply allow
me to scroll up and down.
I can view this particular
panel full screen.
Or it can cancel or close it,
which is what I'm going to do.
Now you can see neo4j makes it very
easy to learn all about graph analytics.
So let's go ahead and get started
with learning how to create and
modify our first graph network.